I think you'll be real happy with how
you look. You just look sort of younger
and more vibrant because you're just
regenerating cells that much faster.
[music]
Hi, my name is John Jish. I'm a doctor
of biomedical engineering.
Today I'm going to talk about what I eat
in a day. And uh there's been a lot of
questions about this and and I've also
mentioned that I have sort of two ways
of doing it depending on what my goals
are and I flip-flop back and forth to
get sort of the maximum
benefit. So in part one I want to talk
about like a like a diet day. And I I
hate calling it that because there's no
such thing as a diet. You need to change
your lifestyle. But I like flipping back
and forth from
prioritizing losing body fat and doing
so as quickly as possible [music] and
then really focus on giving the
musculature and all the cells in the
body exactly what they need to flourish.
So we can call it a diet day or cutting
day or whatever. I also don't like
saying cutting and bulking because
cutting is usually starvation for most
people who do it. Bulking is usually
[music] just getting fat for most people
who do it because they don't realize
that muscle really depends on protein
and only protein. A few principles I
want to lay out first. You'll hear all
the time from bodybuilders that you need
to be in a calorie surplus to build
muscle. This is not quite right. You
will notice that they are so [snorts]
dug in on this issue for whatever
reason. It's it's like just calorie
derangement syndrome. maybe if we want
to call it like that. Sort of like Trump
derangement syndrome. They really seem
to be hung up on this calorie thing. But
let me tell you, uh, eating candy bars,
candy bars don't become muscle. Just
sorry, it doesn't work that way. I mean,
under natural circumstances,
somebody will bring up the insulin
argument. Yeah, okay, maybe. Ultimately,
protein synthesis requires protein and
that's why they call it protein
synthesis. You don't need anything else.
So, if you have a protein surplus and
are eating at an energy deficit, then
you can gain muscle mass and lose body
fat at the same time. And there is
research that demonstrates this. So, at
no point are we like giving up on
building muscle and just trying to
sacrifice body weight/ fat as quickly as
possible because I think the sort of
bodybuilder style crash dieting before a
show, they can get like that. I think
the smarter guys know to do it a little
more slowly and on, you know, they'll
take like a 12 weeks to to get their
body fat down to show level. Uh, and I
think that's interesting and they do it
in a way where they don't completely
lose their minds. And that is the thing
because
when you're eating a lot less than your
body wants you to eat and I and I want
you to think about it that way like
you're used to eating a certain amount
and your body likes that homeostasis.
Even if you're obese, even if you're at
a body weight that's bad [music] for
you, you have a whatever whatever your
your metabolic
symptoms are, your body still wants to
be sort of in the same spot that you've
been. And you got to change that. So
it's going to fight you and like first
it's going to fight you by making you
hungry. So you'll start cutting back on
your energy consumption, but then you'll
be [music] just completely taken by the
fact that you want to eat anything and
everything in [music] your sight. And
I'm sure anybody who's listening to this
uh you know what I'm talking about. So
to deal with that uh I mentioned a few
weeks ago that I was doing low dose of
retatrite. I called it a micro dose and
a bunch of people wanted to correct me
and I think they actually did a good job
in correcting me. A micro dose is like a
tiny dose but you spread it out and
that's not what I was doing. I took the
once weekly shot and just cut it in half
from the clinical dose. So instead of 2
milligrams I took 1 milligram but I
bumped it up to two because I saw a
couple of the mechanisms not really
kicking in under that dosage when I
really did a deep dive into the
research. So, um, I've taken 2 mg per
week of the GLP3
to just cut my appetite significantly.
And wow, like it is perfect because as
soon as you just take the edge off that
sort of fish hunger you have for all
kinds of that you shouldn't be
eating, you just quit eating it and you
start looking at food as fuel. And
that's the way you should look at it.
Having said all of that, here's how my
day goes. I wake up in the morning and I
make and and forgive this because I'm on
vacation. So, this is not my kitchen.
So, it starts off like this where I make
forgen shake. I put uh 10
10 grams of creatine and uh 30 grams of
foragen which when assimilated into the
body becomes 150 g of protein because
that's just essential amino acids that
then when in the body when are noticed
in the body by your own body's
biochemistry will then create the other
proteins to assemble or other amino
acids to assemble full proteins.
And that's tremendous because when you
have essential amino acids, you actually
increase your cellular regeneration rate
because the body sees you have the
essential ones. Those are the ones that
are hard to get. So, it's like, okay, uh
what what proteins are we not using so
that we can sacrifice them to backfill
and create enough human proteins for
protein synthesis. And this isn't just
muscle. is in your eyes, in your brain,
in your skin. All that has to happen. So
you accelerate that process. You
accelerate autophagy. So that's what the
process is called. That's a huge benefit
of amino acids, which is why my protein
requirements really rest heavily on
foragen for that accelerated cellular
regeneration. And I mean, hey, some
people tell me I look terrible for my
age. Uh I'm 49. Other more people tell
me I look great for my age. And I think
I do. I'm not going to launch a skincare
line or anything, but I would like to
say that when you do this,
you'll end up looking younger. Your skin
will look younger. You'll notice some
wrinkles disappear. Now, I don't know if
it's going to take 20 years off your
physical appearance. Probably not.
[music] Didn't do that for me, but it
took some years off. And uh I I I think
you'll be real happy with how you look.
you just look sort of younger and more
vibrant because you're just regenerating
cells that much faster. So I wake up in
the morning, have my my Foraggen shake
with three doses of Fortoen. Then
about I have no lunch, I have no
breakfast and no lunch other than that
shake. Then I do another Foraggen shake
at about 2:00. And you see right here,
it's basically the same activity. I'm
doing putting together another 10 g. So,
I end up in the whole day taking 20 g of
creatine. Great for brain health. It's
great for muscle hydration. Yes, better
muscle hydration is associated with
accelerated muscle growth. But before
you get too excited, it's a very little
bit. But why not? Creatine's cheap and
all the brands are basically the same
thing. And any anybody who tells you
their creatine is [music] better,
uh, I don't think so. I I' I've yet to
see some research that say there's one
version that's really superior to the
just the regular cheap creatine
monohydrate. Uh which by the way, if you
mix it in warm water,
doesn't feel like you're drinking uh
like sand because it ends up actually
being soluble in the water. Uh but it
doesn't need to be like boiling or
anything as long as the water is just
warm. So, [music] these two shakes and
then mean here's what I end up having
for dinner. Just fat steak and that's
it. That's that's my eating for a day
where I'm trying to drop as much body
fat as possible. So, that's huge for
dropping body fat. I also build muscle
in these periods because I'm getting
over 300 grams of protein between the
two shakes and the uh and the steak. So,
I'm at a protein surplus, but an energy
deficit so I can keep losing body fat
and gaining muscle mass. And then, of
course, when when I get to the part two
of this video series, you'll see what I
do when I have the higher energy days
when I try and refeed and rehydrate
everything [music] to maximize size and
strength. I hope this helps. Uh, if you
think I'm wrong about something, please
let me know in the comments. Also,
please let me know if I'm right. Thanks.
>> If this video helped you, I want you to
subscribe and follow. I'm going to put
out videos on a regular basis. I think
they're going to help a whole lot of
people, especially if you're one of
those people that doesn't just instantly
grow from lifting regular weights.
[music] We've got the answer for you.